Add Blogpost: Adding Jest Snapshot Testing to React Native Windows Apps (#4)
microsoft/react-native-devblog: blogposts/2023-02-10-adding-snapshot-testing-to-rnw-apps.md

---
post_title: "Adding Jest Snapshot Testing to React Native Windows Apps"
author1: chiaramooney
post_slug: 2023-02-10-adding-snapshot-testing-to-rnw-apps

> post_date: 2023-02-10 12:00:00

Reviewer: headsup: I think that we will need to get either Steven or Ryan to also give their ✅, I'd propose a target publication date for mid-next week (14/15)

Author: Will do!

> post_slug: 2023-02-15-adding-snapshot-testing-to-rnw-apps
> post_date: 2023-02-15 12:00:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
post_slug: 2023-03-02-adding-snapshot-testing-to-rnw-apps
post_date: 2023-03-02 12:00:00
```
let's set this date and merge so that it will get published then?

categories: react-native
tags: jest, react-native, testing, react-native-windows, tutorial
summary: I added Jest Snapshot testing to a React Native Windows app with community modules. Here's a guide on how I did it!
---

> [React Native Gallery](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery) is a React Native Windows app which showcases core and community module component samples. One function of the app is to validate whether a release has caused UI changes to our component set. In the past, this process was done manually by upgrading the app and walking through all sample pages to confirm that components were being rendered as expected, following the version upgrade. This process was time consuming and lacked accuracy. To automate more of this process, we've begun to add UI testing to React Native Gallery. In this document, I'll walk through how I added Jest Snapshot testing to React Native Gallery. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[React Native Gallery](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery) is a React Native Windows app which showcases core and community module component samples. One function of the app is to validate whether a release has caused UI changes to our component set. In the past, this process was done manually by upgrading the app and walking through all sample pages to confirm that components were being rendered as expected, following the version upgrade. This process was time consuming and lacked accuracy. To automate more of this process, we've begun to add UI testing to React Native Gallery. In this blogpost, I'll walk through how I added Jest Snapshot testing to React Native Gallery. 
```

> [React Native Gallery](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery) is a React Native Windows app which showcases core and community module component samples. One function of the app is to validate whether a release has caused UI changes to our component set. In the past, this process was done manually by upgrading the app and walking through all sample pages to confirm that components were being rendered as expected, following the version upgrade. This process was time consuming and lacked accuracy. To automate more of this process, we've begun to add UI testing to React Native Gallery. In this blogpost, I'll walk through how I added Jest Snapshot testing to React Native Gallery. 

Reviewer 2: Consider adding something in the intro that talks about how this guide is specifically about RNW (with a link to the RNW docs), but that this general flow is applicable to x-plat apps too. Additionally, the conclusion talks about RNW but the idea should also be introduced in the intro.

> One of the most common testing frameworks to use with React Native apps is [Jest](https://jestjs.io/). Jest is a JavaScript testing framework, which is included by default within React Native apps that were created after v0.38. You can confirm that your app has Jest setup by checking the `package.json` file at the root of your app. It should contain the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most common testing frameworks to use with React Native apps is [Jest](https://jestjs.io/). Jest is a JavaScript testing framework that is included by default within React Native apps that were created after v0.38. You can confirm that your app has Jest setup by checking the `package.json` file at the root of your app. It should contain the following code:
```

> One of the most common testing frameworks to use with React Native apps is [Jest](https://jestjs.io/). Jest is a JavaScript testing framework, which is included by default within React Native apps that were created after v0.38. You can confirm that your app has Jest setup by checking the `package.json` file at the root of your app. It should contain the following code:

Reviewer 2: It might be good to add a note that the same Jest tests can be shared across all of the platforms that your app targets, both mobile/desktop.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest"
  },
  "jest": {
    "preset": "react-native"
  }
}
```

> [Snapshot tests](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) help to capture UI and verify that no unexpected UI changes have been made. A snapshot test case will include rendering a UI component, taking a snapshot, and then comparing the snapshot to a reference file. If the two do not match, the test will fail. This is will occur in one of two cases. Either the UI change is unexpected, or the change is expected, and the snapshot reference needs to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Snapshot tests](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) help to capture UI and verify that no unexpected UI changes have been made. A snapshot test case will include rendering a UI component, taking a snapshot, and then comparing the snapshot to a reference file. If the two do not match, the test will fail. This will occur in one of two cases: either the UI change is unexpected, or the change is expected - and the snapshot reference needs to be updated.
```

To begin, I followed Jest's [Getting Started](https://jestjs.io/docs/tutorial-react-native) guide for adding testing to React Native apps. This gave me a good overview of potential Jest configurations/customizations, how to write a simple snapshot test, and information on snapshot reference files.

> Writing snapshot tests in Jest is fairly simple. Once you have your `App-test.js` file, you'll want to import the desired component that you want to snapshot and write a test case. Here is an example snippet from React Native Gallery's testing of its Button component page:

Reviewer: add link to the example snippet's github page?

```js
import {ButtonExamplePage} from '../src/examples/ButtonExamplePage';

test('Button Example Page', () => {
  const tree = create(<ButtonExamplePage />).toJSON();
  expect(tree).toMatchSnapshot();
});
```

> As I began to develop, I realized there was some additional configuration I needed to add in order to get my tests to run correctly. First, I had several modules that needed to be added to the `transformIgnorePatterns` Jest customization. This customization is used to specify which files should be transformed by Babel. By default, Jest only processes the app's and react-native's source code. You'll know if a module needs to be transformed, if the app throws an error saying "Jest encountered an unexpected token". In this case, the module should be listed in the `transformIgnorePatterns` customization within your app's `package.json`. See Jest's [transformIgnorePatterns](https://jestjs.io/docs/tutorial-react-native#transformignorepatterns-customization) documentation for syntax info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As I began to work on this, I realized there was some additional configuration I needed to add in order to get my tests to run correctly. First, I had several modules that needed to be added to the `transformIgnorePatterns` Jest customization. This customization is used to specify which files should be transformed by Babel. By default, Jest only processes the app's and react-native's source code. You'll know if a module needs to be transformed, if the app throws an error saying "Jest encountered an unexpected token". In this case, the module should be listed in the `transformIgnorePatterns` customization within your app's `package.json`. See Jest's [transformIgnorePatterns](https://jestjs.io/docs/tutorial-react-native#transformignorepatterns-customization) documentation for syntax info.
```

> Next, I had several modules which required [mocking](https://jestjs.io/docs/mock-function-api/). Mock functions are often needed for modules which implement API's instead of UI components. Examples within React Native Gallery include the `react-native-device-info` module or the `react-navigation` module. If a function needs to be mocked by Jest, you'll commonly receive an error that the method is undefined, when trying to render a component which makes use of the method. Here's an example error for a `react-native-device-info` method that needs mocking: "`@react-native-community/react-native-device-info`: `NativeModule.RNDeviceInfo` is null". To add mocks to your Jest configuration, you'll want to create a `jest-setup.js` file at the root of your repo. Then you'll want to edit your Jest configuration in your app's `package.json` to identify that you've created a setup file. See the `package.json` source snippet below for syntax. Now you'll want to add contents to your `jest-setup.js` file. Some community modules already have `mock.js` files implemented in their source. If this is the case, you'll just want to reference this file in your setup file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, I had several modules which required [mocking](https://jestjs.io/docs/mock-function-api/). Mock functions are often needed for modules which implement API's instead of UI components. Examples within React Native Gallery include the `react-native-device-info` module or the `react-navigation` module. If a function needs to be mocked by Jest, you'll commonly receive an error that the method is undefined, when trying to render a component which makes use of the method. Here's an example error for a `react-native-device-info` method that needs mocking: "`@react-native-community/react-native-device-info`: `NativeModule.RNDeviceInfo` is null". To add mocks to your Jest configuration, you'll want to create a `jest-setup.js` file at the root of your repo. Then you'll want to edit your Jest configuration in your app's `package.json` to identify that you've created a setup file (*see the `package.json` source snippet below for syntax*). Now you'll want to add contents to your `jest-setup.js` file. Some community modules already have `mock.js` files implemented in their source. If this is the case, you'll just want to reference this file in your setup file.
```

Here is an example of the code added for the `react-native-permissions` module:
```js
jest.mock('react-native-permissions', () =>
require('react-native-permissions/mock'),
);
```
If the community module does not have a mock.js file, you'll have to mock the undefined function yourself. There are a couple ways to sleuth out how to correctly mock: 
	1. Check the community module source. If they have an example app with Jest testing, what do they do in their `jest-setup.js` file?

> 	2. You can also check postings from the community on how they mocked particular methods for a given module.

Reviewer: what does "postings" mean here?

Author: I mean mostly mean stackoverflow or other forum posts. I'll try rewording that to add more clarity.

> 	3. React Native Gallery has a wide set of community modules it has tests for. Check out our [`jest-setup.js`](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery/blob/main/jest-setup.js) to see how we mocked needed modules. 

Reviewer: headsup, this section doesn't render correctly as a markdown numbered list; I think it might have to do with formatting/the tabs you added, you might also need a blank row between the phrase and 1. ([check the rendered file](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-devblog/blob/chiaramooney-AddingSnapshotTestingToRNWApps/blogposts/2023-02-10-adding-snapshot-testing-to-rnw-apps.md))

Author: Will change!

Here is React Native Gallery's Jest customization within [`package.json`](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery/blob/main/package.json):
```json
"jest": {
    "preset": "react-native",
    "modulePathIgnorePatterns": [
      "<rootDir>/lib/"
    ],
    "transformIgnorePatterns": [
      "node_modules/(?!(react-native|react-native-xaml|@react-native|react-native-windows|react-native-config|@react-native-community|react-native-print|react-native-webview|react-native-windows-hello|react-native-permissions|react-native-tts|react-native-gesture-handler)/)"
    ],
    "setupFiles": [
      "<rootDir>/jest-setup.js"
    ]
  },
```

> Once you have all your tests running and passing, you might see that the Jest run is still exiting with exit code 1. This occurred in React Native Gallery. After some searching, I discovered it was because some of the components our tests were rendering contained asynchronous calls and updates. This results in Jest throwing errors because it cannot ensure that all tasks such as renders, user events, or data fetching were completed and applied before the snapshot match assertion was made. To resolve this error, you'll need to wrap the render of the component you wish to snapshot in React's `act()` function. Then, following the `act()` call, make your snapshot assertion. 

Reviewer: > Once you have all your tests running and passing, you might see that the Jest run is still exiting with exit code 1.

I'm confused: are the tests running and passing, or is Jest existing with code 1? If it's an actual scenario, can we add a few more details to the phrase to make it clearer (ex. "all your individual tests")

Author: Sure I can add more clarity here!

Here's a code snippet of the test for React Native Gallery's `DateTimePicker` page:
```js
test('TimePicker Example Page', async () => {
  let tree;
  await act(() => {
    tree = create(<TimePickerExamplePage />).toJSON();
  });
  expect(tree).toMatchSnapshot();
});
```

> Concluding, in this article I've shared my process for adding Jest Snapshot testing to a React Native Windows application. Adding snapshot testing to React Native Gallery has helped us track visual changes to app components occur and validate that new releases of React Native Windows do not break community modules. Before leaving, I also wanted to share a couple of recommendations:

Reviewer 2: Some folks will jump straight to the conclusion. Suggest adding a link to the Gallery here as well.

```suggestion
Concluding, in this article I've shared my process for adding [Jest Snapshot](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) testing to a [React Native Windows](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/) application. Adding snapshot testing to [React Native Gallery](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-gallery) has helped us track visual changes to app components occur and validate that new releases of React Native Windows do not break community modules. Before leaving, I also wanted to share a couple of recommendations:
```

> Concluding, in this article I've shared my process for adding Jest Snapshot testing to a React Native Windows application. Adding snapshot testing to React Native Gallery has helped us track visual changes to app components occur and validate that new releases of React Native Windows do not break community modules. Before leaving, I also wanted to are a couple of recommendations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concluding, in this article I've shared my process for adding Jest Snapshot testing to a React Native Windows application. Adding snapshot testing to React Native Gallery has helped us track visual changes to app components occur and validate that new releases of React Native Windows do not break community modules. Before leaving, I also wanted to share a couple of recommendations:
```

> 1. The code for writing the tests is fairly straightforward; getting Jest configured correctly for your app is where the challenge kicks in. If you're working with an app with a number of community modules, tackle adding tests which use each community module one at a time.

Reviewer 2: Voice/tone suggestion.
```suggestion
1. The code for writing the tests is fairly straightforward; getting Jest configured correctly for your app can be where the challenge kicks in. If you're working on an app that depends on community modules, consider adding tests for each module one at a time.
```

> 2. Develop incrementally. Start with a test case which simply renders a `<View/>` control. Make sure your base case runs successfully. Then, test as you go. Jest errors aren't always clear, so the more granular you can make your changes between runs of the tests, the easier you'll be able to diagnose what's wrong.

Reviewer 2: Consider putting the "why" before the "what".

```suggestion
2. Develop incrementally. Since Jest errors aren't always clear, consider making granular changes between runs of the tests. That way it'll be easier to diagnose what's wrong. For example, start with a test case that simply renders a `<View/>` component. Make sure your base case runs successfully -- then you can test as you go.
```

Additional Troubleshooting:
	1. Attempting to run tests on the `react-native-permissions` module causes Jest to hang. As of now, we haven't solved this issue, so the test is disabled.

> 	2. Some modules usage of the `UIManager.getViewManagerConfig()` API does not work well with Jest. `UIManager` returns undefined, even though the component is a part of core and thus should have already been transformed by Jest. As of now, we've had to disable tests for `TrackPlayer` and `SketchCanvas`.

Reviewer: If this section is meant to be the conclusion, it misses a bit of the "skeleton" of a conclusion; I would suggest adding one or more phrases at the start like "Concluding, in this article I've shared {etc etc etc} and this has helped us reach {goals} - before leaving, I also wanted to are a couple of recommendations: [...] And here are a couple more pointers for some blockers I've hit while working on this".

Author: Will do!

> 

Reviewer: these two lists have the same problem I mentioned above. check the rendered file
